now when the people complained it
displeased the Lord for the Lord heard
it and his anger was aroused so the fire
of the Lord
burned among them and consumed son in
the outskirts of the camp
when the people cried out to Moses and
when Moses prayed to the Lord the fire
was quenched so he called the name of
the place tabara because the fire of the
Lord had burned among them now the mixed
multitude who were among them yielded to
intense craving so the children of
israel also wept again and said who will
give us meat to eat
we remember the fish which we ate freely
in Egypt the cucumber's the melons the
leeks the onions and the garlic but now
our whole being is dried up there is
nothing at all except this manna before
our eyes now the manna was like
coriander seed and its color like the
color of Dehlia the people went about
and gathered it grounded on mill stones
or beated in the mortar cooked it in
pans and made cakes of it and its taste
was like the taste of pastry prepared
with oil and when the dew fell on the
camp in the night the manna fell on it
then Moses heard the people weeping
throughout their families everyone at
the door of his tent and the anger of
the Lord was greatly aroused Moses also
was displeased
so Moses said to the Lord why have you a
did your servant and why have I not
found favor in your sight that you have
laid the burden of all these people on
me did I conceive all these people did I
beget them that you should say to me
carry them in your bosom as a guardian
carries a nursing child to the land
which you swore to their fathers where
am I to get neat to give all these
people for they weep all over me saying
give us meat that we may eat I am NOT
able to bear all these people alone
because the burden is too heavy for me
if you treat me like this please
kill me here and now if I have found
favor in your sight and do not let me
see my wretchedness so the Lord said to
Moses gather to me seventy men of the
elders of Israel whom you know to be the
elders of the people and officers over
them bring them to the tabernacle of
meeting that they may stand there with
you then I will come down and talk with
you there
I will take of the spirit that is upon
you and will put the same upon them and
they shall bear the burden of the people
with you that you may not bear it
yourself alone then you shall say to the
people consecrate yourselves for
tomorrow and you shall eat meat for you
have wept in the hearing of the Lord
saying who will give us meat to eat for
it was well with us in Egypt therefore
the Lord will give you meat and you
shall eat you shall eat not one day in
or two days nor five days nor ten days
nor twenty days but for a whole month
until it comes out of your nostrils and
becomes loathsome to you because you
have despised the Lord who is among you
and have wept before him saying why did
we ever come up out of Egypt the people
who I am among our 600,000 men on foot
yet you have said I will give them meat
that they may eat for a whole month
shall flocks and herds be slaughtered
for them to provide enough for them or
shall all the fish of the sea be
gathered together for them to provide
enough for them as the Lord's arm been
shortened now you shall see whether what
I say will happen to you or not
so Moses went out and told the people
the words of the Lord and he gathered
for seventy men of the elders of
and place them around the Taverner the
Lord came down in the clan and spooked
him and took off the spirit that was
upon him and placed the same upon the
seventy elders and it happened when the
spirit rested upon them that they
prophesied although they never did so
again but two men had remained in the
camp the name of one was Eldad and the
name of the other me dead and the spirit
rested upon
now they were among those listed but who
had not gone out to the tabernacle yet
they prophesied in the camp and a young
man ran and told Moses Eldad and Medad
are prophesying in the camp sir Joshua
the son of nun Moses assistant one of
his choice men on sent Moses my lord
forbid them and Moses said to him our
new zealous for my sake know that all
the Lord's people were prophets and that
the Lord will put his spirit upon them
and Moses returned to the camp but he
and the elders of Israel
[Music]
our wind went out from the Lord and it
will clear from the seal and left them
fluttering near the cabin about a day's
journey on this side and about a day's
journey on the other side all around the
camp and about two cubits above the
surface of the ground and the people
stayed up all that day all night and all
the next day and gathered the clay he
who gathered least gathered ten homeless
and they spread them out for themselves
all around the camp but while the meat
was still between their teeth before it
is chewed a ruff of the Lord was aroused
against the people and the Lord struck
the people with a very great play
so he called the name of that place key
broth pate ever because there they
buried the people who had yielded to
craving from key broth Hattie over the
people moved to her 0th and camped at
her 0th